---
layout: post
title:  "Commuting"
date:   2016-11-24 08:02:55
categories: rant
---
There are far better ways to spend the time. Three hours a day commuting is too much.

A brief digression about precision.
In some professions there are absolutes.
In engineering there is only "good enough".
One way to translate *good enough* into numbers, is to say within five or ten percent.
So, a resistor is 1000Ω±10%, meaning it could be as small as 900 Ohms or as large as 1100 Ohms – or anywhere in between.
If your circuit fails to work when constructed with a resistor from that range of values you either have to change the circuit or specify a tighter tolerance, like 1000Ω±5%.
Being *within ten percent* doesn't mean that ninety percent of the time it's some exact value, but rather, one hundred percent of the time it's nearly the exact value within a tolerance of ten percent.

So, back to the original topic. When your lifestyle is such that you're working seven and a half hours a day (37.5 hour work week), it usually means plus or minus some minutes.
Carrying the analogy from above, a ten percent tolerance would be as little as 6.75 or as much as 8.25 hours.

When your commute time is 1.5 hours each way, 10.5 hours is forty percent more:

```
((10.5 ÷ 7.5) − 1) × 100 = 40%
```

No matter how you look at it, this is not *good enough*. 

As a self employed person, this reduces the per hour or per diem rate by nearly 30%:

```
(((1 / 7.5) – (1 / 10.5)) / (1 / 7.5)) * 100 = 28.6%
```

To be sure, it's not difficult – I sit on a train and read – but it's not what I want to do either.
I don't come home and continue reading or listening to music.

There are a number of reasons that one can't do what one wants:

* connectivity is poor, expensive and bandwidth sucks in tunnels – so watching Coursera course videos doesn't work
* space is often limited on *cash cow* commuter runs, where statistics allow the available seating to be used to capacity - so studying with both a textbook and a notebook is challenging
* the ride is quite bumpy and jiggly - so drawing or other fine art turns out badly
* you have to carry everything you need with you - so power tools are out
* you generally have to be quiet - so phone calls are different

Occasionally, when I'm traveling along a lake where the westering sun illuminates the vineyards with that golden glow,
wearing headphones playing a favorite track while I'm drinking a beer, I can enjoy it.
 
But normally, it's not so pleasant. I have to find a way to charge for travel time, or more strenuously strive to work from home.

